Okay, so we have Act 1, Act 2, Act 3. This
is your basic story formula. So what happens
in Act 1 that makes it different from 2 and
3? Here's how it works. You have a formula,
let's say it is a boy meets a girl. And in
Act 1 that's what we're going to describe.
The meeting, what happens to them, who they
are and that information. In Act 2 you're
going to have boy loses girl. And here in
Act 2 you are going to describe all the problems
that they are having in their relationship
and he loses her. He's found her and he's
lost her. In Act 3 boy gets girl back. That
is the basis of your story. Boy meets girl,
boy loses girl, boy gets girl back. Okay,
I can hear you, what you're saying. You're
saying to yourself well my story's not a love
story. I don't have any boy meeting girl.
It doesn't matter and you'll see how the same
format it used for any situation. Let's say
you're going to write a Western instead. Okay,
so you might say - the farmer buys a farm.
And, following our formula as we did before.
The farmer, what happens here, he's going
to lose the farm, right? And what's going
to happen in Act 3? I can hear you saying
it before I do. The farmer gets the farm back.
So you see, it doesn't matter what your story
is. The idea is the same. The format, this
is how it follows.